## OOP in Kotlin

This Project teaches you how to use classes and objects in Kotlin based on  [Use classes and objects in Kotlin](https://developer.android.com/codelabs/basic-android-kotlin-compose-classes-and-objects?authuser=1&continue=https%3A%2F%2Fdeveloper.android.com%2Fcourses%2Fpathways%2Fandroid-basics-compose-unit-2-pathway-1%3Fauthuser%3D1%23codelab-https%3A%2F%2Fdeveloper.android.com%2Fcodelabs%2Fbasic-android-kotlin-compose-classes-and-objects)

Classes provide blueprints from which objects can be constructed. An object is an instance of a class that consists of data specific to that object. You can use objects or class instances interchangeably.

As an analogy, imagine that you build a house. A class is similar to an architect's design plan, also known as a blueprint. The blueprint isn't the house; it's the instruction for how to build the house. The house is the actual thing, or object, which is built based on the blueprint.

Just like the house blueprint specifies multiple rooms and each room has its own design and purpose, each class has its own design and purpose. To know how to design your classes, you need to get familiar with *object-oriented programming (OOP)*, a framework that teaches you to enclose data, logic, and behavior in objects.

OOP helps you simplify complex, real-world problems into smaller objects. There are four basic concepts of OOP, each of which you learn more about later in this codelab:

- **Encapsulation.** Wraps the related properties and methods that perform action on those properties in a class. For example, consider your mobile phone. It encapsulates a camera, display, memory cards, and several other hardware and software components. You don't have to worry about how components are wired internally.
- **Abstraction.** An extension to encapsulation. The idea is to hide the internal implementation logic as much as possible. For example, to take a photo with your mobile phone, all you need to do is open the camera app, point your phone to the scene that you want to capture, and click a button to capture the photo. You don't need to know how the camera app is built or how the camera hardware on your mobile phone actually works. In short, the internal mechanics of the camera app and how a mobile camera captures the photos are abstracted to let you perform the tasks that matter.
- **Inheritance.** Enables you to build a class upon the characteristics and behavior of other classes by establishing a parent-child relationship. For example, there are different manufacturers who produce a variety of mobile devices that run Android OS, but the UI for each of the devices is different. In other words, the manufacturers inherit the Android OS feature and build their customizations on top of it.
- **Polymorphism.** The word is an adaptation of the Greek root *poly-*, which means many, and *-morphism*, which means forms. Polymorphism is the ability to use different objects in a single, common way. For example, when you connect a Bluetooth speaker to your mobile phone, the phone only needs to know that there's a device that can play audio over Bluetooth. However, there are a variety of Bluetooth speakers that you can choose from and your phone doesn't need to know how to work with each of them specifically.
